The tools need to install your K&N 69-4519
air intake system are; a socket set, a flat
blade screw driver, a Phillips screw driver,
a 4mm Allen wrench, and 3mm Allen wrench.
Begin installation by turning off the vehicles
ignition and disconnect the negative battery
cable. Disconnect the mass air sensor electrical
connection. Remove the oil filler cap and
then lift up and remove the engine cover.
Then reinstall the oil filler cap. Next, disconnect
the crankcase vent tube from the intake resonator.
Loosen the hose clamps that secure the stock
intake tube to the air box and throttle body.
Remove the stock intake tube.
Rotate the crankcase vent tube 180 degrees.
Release the retainer at the valve cover port
and then remove the crankcase vent tube from
the valve cover port. Remove the two air box
retaining nuts.
Lift up and remove the factory air box from
the vehicle. K&N recommends that customers
do not discard their factory air intake. Remove
the air box mounting grommet from the frame
rail. Install the heat shield mounting bracket
onto the heat shield using the provided hardware.
Next, install the filter adapter onto the
heat shield using the provided hardware. Install
the edge trim onto the heat shield. Some trimming
will be necessary. Install the inserted nut
onto the heat shield mounting bracket using
the provide hardware. Make sure to not completely
tighten the inserted nut at this time. Next,
install the heat shield assembly into the
vehicle. Position it so that the nut goes
into the air box mounting grommet hole. And
the tab goes into the air box mounting stud.
Secure the heat shield with the provided hardware.
Install the silicon hose onto the throttle
body and secure it with the provided hose
clamp.
Install the silicon hose onto the filter adaptor
and secure with the provided hose clamp. Remove
the mass air sensor from the factory air box.
Install the mass air sensor into the K&N intake
tube and secure it with the provided hardware.
Install the provided one fourth NPT fitting
into the K&N intake tube.
Install the K&N intake tube assembly into
the silicon hose at the filter adapter and
throttle body. Tighten them with the provided
hose clamp.
Attach the provided crankcase vent hose to
the one fourth NPT fitting and then attach
the open end of the vent port on the valve
cover.
Install the K&N air filter onto the filter
adapter and secure it with the provided hose
clamp. Reconnect the mass air sensor electrical
connection. Reinstall the engine cover. Reconnect
the vehicle’s negative battery cable. Double
check to make sure everything is tight and
properly positioned before starting the vehicle.
After 100 miles of driving check the nuts
and bolts and retighten if necessary.